------------------------------------------------------                 EDIT                      -----------------------------------------------------------
bat                         + a cat clone                                                     + https://github.com/sharkdp/bat                        + rust
fzf                         + a command-line fuzzy finder                                     + https://github.com/junegunn/fzf                       + go
sk      - skim              + a rusty fuzzy finder                                            + https://github.com/lotabout/skim                      + rust
fzy                         + simplier fuzzy finder                                           + https://github.com/jhawthorn/fzy                      + cpp
get     - sysget            + One package manager to rule them all                            + https://github.com/emilengler/sysget                  + cpp
delta                       + viewer for git and diff output                                  + https://github.com/dandavison/delta                   + rust
tap     - teip              + Standard input replace                                          + https://github.com/greymd/teip                        + rust
rg                          + (ripgrep) grep alternative                                      + https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep                 + rust
fd                          + fast find alternative                                           + https://github.com/sharkdp/fd                         + rust
fq      - fselect           + find files with SQL-like queries                                + https://github.com/jhspetersson/fselect               + rust
sd                          + an intuitive search & displace                                  + https://github.com/chmln/sd                           + rust
sad                         + CLI search and replace                                          + https://github.com/ms-jpq/sad                         + rust
tk      - tokei             + code statistics                                                 + https://github.com/XAMPPRocky/tokei                   + rust
aa      - alertafter        + notify after command                                            + https://github.com/frewsxcv/alert-after               + rust
rp      - ruplacer          + find and replace text in source files                           + https://github.com/TankerHQ/ruplacer                  + rust
choose                      + alternative to cut + awk together                               + https://github.com/theryangeary/choose                + rust
hck     - tuc               + a sharp cut clone                                               + https://github.com/sstadick/hck                       + rust
-------------------------------------------------------               PACKAGES                    -----------------------------------------------------------
yay                         + yet another AUR helper                                          + https://github.com/Jguer/yay                          + go
pack    - paru              + featured packed AUR helper                                      + https://github.com/morganamilo/paru                   + rust
box     - blindspot         + binary app manager                                              + https://github.com/xermicus/blindspot                 + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                SYSTEM                     -----------------------------------------------------------
alt                         + binary version/path manager                                     + https://github.com/dotboris/alt                       + rust
handlr                      + better xdg-utils                                                + https://github.com/chmln/handlr                       + rust
lnav                        + system LOG navigatior/viewer                                    + https://github.com/tstack/lnav                        + cpp
bootiso                     + create a bootable USB devices                                   + https://github.com/jsamr/bootiso                      + bash
pier                        + script management CLI                                           + https://github.com/pier-cli/pier                      + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                 PAGER                    -----------------------------------------------------------
pspg                        + advanced unix pager                                             + https://github.com/okbob/pspg                         + c
peep                        + less alternative                                                + https://github.com/ryochack/peep                      + rust
ov                          +  feature rich terminal pager                                    + https://github.com/noborus/ov                         + go
-------------------------------------------------------                CHANGE                     -----------------------------------------------------------
entr                        + run commands on files change                                    + https://github.com/eradman/entr                       + cpp
watcher                     + watch files or directory changes                                + https://github.com/radovskyb/watcher                  + go
-------------------------------------------------------               NETWORK                     -----------------------------------------------------------
ari     - aria2             + swissarmy knife of downloaders                                  + https://github.com/aria2/aria2                        + cpp
band    - bandwhitch        + bandwidth utilization                                           + https://github.com/imsnif/bandwhich                   + rust
ipinfo                      + info about public IP                                            + https://github.com/Surendrajat/IPinfo                 + go
torrent                     + torrent client package and utilities                            + https://github.com/anacrolix/torrent                  + go
imdl                        + torrent metadata and utilities                                  + https://github.com/casey/intermodal                   + rust
mole                        + cli app to create ssh tunnels                                   + https://github.com/davrodpin/mole                     + go
rclone                      + rsync for cloud storage                                         + https://github.com/rclone/rclone                      + go
gotty                       + share CLI as a web application                                  + https://github.com/yudai/gotty                        + go
tunnelto                    + expose local web-server to internet                             + https://github.com/agrinman/tunnelto                  + go
mtr                         + 'traceroute' and 'ping' combines                                + https://github.com/traviscross/mtr                    + cpp
innernet                    + private network system                                          + https://github.com/tonarino/innernet                  + rust
hostapd
dnsmasq
traceroute
ufw
tor
------------------------------------------------------                  ADBLOCK               --------------------------------------------------------------
maza                        + local ad blocker, like Pi-hole                                  + https://github.com/tanrax/maza-ad-blocking            + bash
hblock                      + hosts adblocker                                                 + https://github.com/hectorm/hblock                     + bash

-------------------------------------------------------                BROWSER                    -----------------------------------------------------------
bookmark                    + terminal bookmark manager                                       + https://github.com/Szymongib/bookmark                 + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                 SHELL                     -----------------------------------------------------------
atuin                       + Magical shell history                                           + https://github.com/ellie/atuin                        + rust
pet                         + CLI Snippet Manager                                             + https://github.com/knqyf263/pet                       + go
mn      - tealdeer          + faster TLDR/MAN                                                 + https://github.com/dbrgn/tealdeer                     + rust
cod                         + a completion daemon for bash/zsh                                + https://github.com/dim-an/cod                         + go
navi                        + interactive cheatsheet tool                                     + https://github.com/denisidoro/navi                    + rust
z       - zoxide            + faster way to navigate filesystem                               + https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide                 + rust
rng                         + stream range of input to stdout                                 + https://github.com/nickolasburr/rng                   + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                 COLOR                     -----------------------------------------------------------
pastel                      + convert and manipulate colors                                   + https://github.com/sharkdp/pastel                     + rust
pigments                    + color palete from image                                         + https://github.com/blenderskool/pigmnts               + rust
xcolor                      + color picker                                                    + https://github.com/Soft/xcolor                        + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                MONITOR                    -----------------------------------------------------------
gotop                       + better htop system monitor                                      + https://github.com/cjbassi/gotop                      + go
zenith                      + htop but with zoom-able charts                                  + https://github.com/bvaisvil/zenith                    + rust
ps      - procs             + a replacement for ps                                            + https://github.com/dalance/procs                      + rust
pd                          + view process details                                            + https://github.com/wyhaya/pd                          + rust
inxi                        + all-n-one system info                                           + https://github.com/smxi/inxi                          + perl
battop                      + Interactive batteriy monitor                                    + https://github.com/svartalf/rust-battop               + rust
nvtop                       + nvidia gpu terminal monitor                                     + https://github.com/Syllo/nvtop                        + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                 UTILS                     -----------------------------------------------------------
grex                        + generae regex from user cases                                   + https://github.com/pemistahl/grex                     + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                  GIT                      -----------------------------------------------------------
lzg     - lazygit           + simple terminal UI for git commands                             + https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit              + go
gitui                       + blazng fast git cmd ui                                          + https://github.com/extrawurst/gitui                   + rust
grv                         + TUI for viewing git repositories                                + https://github.com/rgburke/grv                        + go
hub                         + github command-line tool                                        + https://github.com/github/hub                         + go
gitmux                      + a github status for tmux                                        + https://github.com/arl/gitmux                         + go
fac                         + TUI for fixing git conflicts                                    + https://github.com/mkchoi212/fac                      + go
-------------------------------------------------------               CONTAINER                   -----------------------------------------------------------
lxc     - lxd               + daemon based on liblxc                                          + https://github.com/lxc/lxd                            + go
dive                        + exploring docker layers                                         + https://github.com/wagoodman/dive                     + go
lzd     - lazydocker        + lazier way to manage docker                                     + https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker           + go
-------------------------------------------------------                  ENV                      -----------------------------------------------------------
direnv                      + OTF local load and unload variables                             + https://github.com/direnv/direnv                      + go
env-modules                 + Dynamic modification of a user's environment                    + https://github.com/cea-hpc/modules                    + tcl
lmod                        + Environment Module System based on Lua (suports TLC)            + https://github.com/TACC/Lmod                          + lua
envy                        + OTF global load and unload variables                            + https://github.com/mre/envy                           + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                  DEV                      -----------------------------------------------------------
pro     - proji             + CLI project templating tool                                     + https://github.com/nikoksr/proji                      + go
procenv                     + Command-line utility to show process environment                + https://github.com/jamesodhunt/procenv                + cpp
dtool                       + command-line tool collection for devs                           + https://github.com/guoxbin/dtool                      + rust
onefetch                    + repository summary on your terminal                             + https://github.com/o2sh/onefetch                      + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                 BUILD                     -----------------------------------------------------------
xmake                       + cross-platform build utility based on Lua                       + https://github.com/xmake-io/xmake                     + c
-------------------------------------------------------                 DATAS                     -----------------------------------------------------------
xsv                         + a cli CSV edtor/reader                                          + https://github.com/BurntSushi/xsv                     + rust
csview                      + a cli CSV viewer                                                + https://github.com/wfxr/csview                        + rust
define                      + command-line dictionary                                         + https://github.com/Rican7/define                      + go
faker                       + fake data gererator                                             + https://github.com/jiro4989/faker                     + nim
jq                          + JSON processor                                                  + https://github.com/stedolan/jq                        + cpp
jo                          + utility to create JSON objects                                  + https://github.com/jpmens/jo                          + cpp
ledger                      + double-entry accounting system                                  + https://github.com/ledger/ledger                      + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                DATABASE                   -----------------------------------------------------------
usql                        + universal CLI for SQL databases                                 + https://github.com/xo/usql                            + go
-------------------------------------------------------               ENCRYPTION                  -----------------------------------------------------------
gpgtui                      + manage GnuPG keys with TUI                                      + https://github.com/orhun/gpg-tui                      + rust
gopass                      + standard unix password manage                                   + https://github.com/gopasspw/gopass                    + go
age                         + file encryption tool                                            + https://github.com/FiloSottile/age                    + go
crux    - horcrux           + split file into encrypted fragments                             + https://github.com/jesseduffield/horcrux              + go
tomb                        + manage encrypted volumes                                        + https://github.com/dyne/Tomb                          + bash
sops                        + simple tool for managing secrets                                + https://github.com/mozilla/sops                       + go
-------------------------------------------------------                  DOT                      -----------------------------------------------------------
emplace                     + syncronise packages multiple PC                                 + https://github.com/tversteeg/emplace                  + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                MANAGER                    -----------------------------------------------------------
adv[cp,mv]                  + cp & mv with progressbar                                        + https://github.com/jarun/advcpmv                      + cpp
scd                         + side/tab file manager                                           + https://github.com/cshuaimin/scd                      + rust
ls      - exa               + modern version of ‘ls’                                          + https://github.com/ogham/exa                          + rust
lsd                         + next-gen version of 'ls'                                        + https://github.com/Peltoche/lsd                       + rust
rn      - renamer           + regex batch renamer                                             + https://github.com/adriangoransson/renamer            + rust
f2                          + batch renaming files                                            + https://github.com/ayoisaiah/f2                       + go
rip                         + safe and ergonomic alternative to rm                            + https://github.com/nivekuil/rip                       + rust
sw                          + swap names of multiple files                                    + https://github.com/aypie/sw                           + cpp
unf                         + sanitize filenames unix format                                  + https://github.com/io12/unf                           + rust
psc     - periscope         + De-duplicate files                                              + https://github.com/anishathalye/periscope             + go
-------------------------------------------------------                 FILES                     -----------------------------------------------------------
disco   - diskonaut         + disk space navigator                                            + https://github.com/imsnif/diskonaut                   + rust
oneshot                     + single-fire HTTP server                                         + https://github.com/raphaelreyna/oneshot               + go
dragon                      + drag & drop for X                                               + https://github.com/mwh/dragon                         + cpp
send    - ffsend            + command line file share                                         + https://github.com/timvisee/ffsend                    + rust
qrcp                        + QR-code file network transfer                                   + https://github.com/claudiodangelis/qrcp               + go
transfer                    + easy and fast file sharing from cli                             + https://github.com/dutchcoders/transfer.sh            + go
croc                        + send from one computer to other                                 + https://github.com/schollz/croc                       + go
wutag                       + tagging and organizing files by tags                            + https://github.com/wojciechkepka/wutag                + rust
xcompress                   + multi-format archiving to and extracting tool                   + https://github.com/magiclen/xcompress                 + rust
feel                        + like `touch` but bette -  vreates mussing dirs                  + https://github.com/jbr/feel                           + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                 NAVIGATR                  -----------------------------------------------------------
nnn                         + the unorthodox terminal file manager                            + https://github.com/jarun/nnn                          + cpp
xplr                        + hackable, minimal, fast TUI file explorer                       + https://github.com/sayanarijit/xplr                   + rust
vifm                        + vim-like file manager for terminal                              + https://github.com/vifm/vifm                          + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                BACKUP                     -----------------------------------------------------------
borg                        + backup & deduplicating archiver                                 + https://github.com/borgbackup/borg                    + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------               HTML & MD                   -----------------------------------------------------------
gomd                        + Serve markdown to localhost                                     + https://github.com/wojciechkepka/gomd                 + go
mdp                         + markdown presentation tool                                      + https://github.com/visit1985/mdp                      + cpp
slides                      + markdown presentation tool                                      + https://github.com/maaslalani/slides                  + go
pandoc                      + universal markup converter                                      + https://github.com/jgm/pandoc                         + hs
hugo                        + Static website builder                                          + https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo                      + go
zola                        + Static site generator                                           + https://github.com/getzola/zola                       + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                 NOTES                     -----------------------------------------------------------
dnote                       + simple command line notebook                                    + https://github.com/dnote/dnote                        + go
eureka                      + store your ideas in the terminal                                + https://github.com/simeg/eureka                       + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                ANDROID                    -----------------------------------------------------------
scrcpy                      + sent video from Android to computer                             + https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy                  + c+j
sndcpy                      + sent sound from Android to computer                             + https://github.com/Genymobile/sndcpy                  + c+j
-------------------------------------------------------                SCHEDULE                   -----------------------------------------------------------
task    - taskwarrior       + commandline task management                                     + https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/taskwarrior   + cpp
remind                      + commandline task management                                     + https://github.com/GothenburgBitFactory/remind        + cpp
pomo                        + pomodoro CLI                                                    + https://github.com/kevinschoon/pomo                   + go
todo    - taskwarrior-tui   + TUI for taskwarrior                                             + https://github.com/kdheepak/taskwarrior-tui           + rust
dijo                        + scriptable digital habit tracker                                + https://github.com/NerdyPepper/dijo                   + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                  MAIL                     ----------------------------------------------------------
meli                        + experimental tui mail client                                    + https://github.com/meli/meli                          + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                 IMAGE                     -----------------------------------------------------------
imagemagick                 + swissarmy knife of image editor                                 + https://github.com/ImageMagick/ImageMagick            + cpp
gmic                        + imag processng and manipulation                                 + https://github.com/dtschump/gmic                      + cpp
fim                         + costumizable image viewer                                       + https://www.nongnu.org/fbi-improved/                  + cpp
viu                         + terminal image viewer                                           + https://github.com/atanunq/viu                        + rust
sic                         + image processing and converter                                  + https://github.com/foresterre/sic                     + rust
chafa                       + terminal graphics for 21st century                              + https://github.com/hpjansson/chafa                    + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                 MUSIC                     -----------------------------------------------------------
spt     - spotifytui        + spotify for the terminal                                        + https://github.com/Rigellute/spotify-tui              + rust
spotifyd                    + spotify deamon                                                  + https://github.com/Spotifyd/spotifyd                  + rust
shellcaster                 + terminal-based podcast manager                                  + https://github.com/jeff-hughes/shellcaster            + rust
rsmix                       + PulseAudio volume mixer                                         + https://github.com/jantap/rsmixer                     + rust
sox                         + swissarmy knife of sound processing                             + https://github.com/chirlu/sox                         + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                 VIDEO                     -----------------------------------------------------------
annie                       + fast and simple video downloader                                + https://github.com/iawia002/annie                     + go
tube    -youtube-dl         + download videos from YouTube.com                                + https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl                + py
mpv                         + command line video player                                       + https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv                     + cpp
gifgen                      + simple high quality GIF encoding                                + https://github.com/lukechilds/gifgen                  + bash
-------------------------------------------------------                HACKING                    -----------------------------------------------------------
r2      - radare2           + reverse engineering framework                                   + https://github.com/radareorg/radare2                  + cpp
termshark                   + terminal UI for tshark                                          + https://github.com/gcla/termshark                     + go
rustscan                    + modern port scanner                                             + https://github.com/RustScan/RustScan                  + rust
nmap                        + network port scanner                                            + https://github.com/nmap/nmap                          + c
hexyl                       + command-line hex viewer                                         + https://github.com/sharkdp/hexyl                      + rust
bingrep                     + grep binary files                                               + https://github.com/m4b/bingrep                        + rust
stego                       + stegonographic swiss army knife                                 + https://github.com/ajmwagar/stego                     + rust
-------------------------------------------------------                TERMINAL                   -----------------------------------------------------------
alacritty                   + GPU-accelerated terminal emulator                               + https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty                + rust
kitty                       + GPU based terminal emulator                                     + https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty                   + cpp
tab                         + terminal multiplexer                                            + https://github.com/austinjones/tab-rs                 + rust
rargs                       + xargs terminal laternative                                      + https://github.com/lotabout/rargs                     + rust
tmux                        + THE terminal multiplexer                                        + https://github.com/tmux/tmux                          + cpp
textimg                     + command colors to image                                         + https://github.com/jiro4989/textimg                   + go
menyoki                     + ImageOps on the command line                                    + https://github.com/orhun/menyoki                      + rust
-------------------------------------------------------             WINDOW-MANAGER                -----------------------------------------------------------
boomer                      + zoom tool for boomers                                           + https://github.com/tsoding/boomer                     + nim
ly                          + a tui display manager                                           + https://github.com/cylgom/ly                          + cpp
bspwm
sxhkd
wmutils
wmctrl
xdo
xdotool
polybar
dunst
picom
espansso
rofi
rofi-blocks
xob
clight
slop                        + query selection from desktop degion                             + https://github.com/naelstrof/slop                     + cpp
maim                        + takes a screenshot of your desktop                              + https://github.com/naelstrof/maim                     + cpp
scrot
-------------------------------------------------------               DEVINPUT                    -----------------------------------------------------------
intercept                   + keybord infrastructure on libudev and libevdev                  + https://gitlab.com/interception/linux/tools           + cpp
-------------------------------------------------------                  BPF                      -----------------------------------------------------------
nhi                         + capture stdout of all termis using eBPF                         + https://github.com/strang1ato/nhi                     + go
-------------------------------------------------------                SANDBOX                    -----------------------------------------------------------
appvm                       + Nix-based app VMs                                               + https://github.com/jollheef/appvm
bubblewrap
firejail
fakeroot
fakechroot
schroot
debootstrap
debtap
-------------------------------------------------------                  OTHER                    -----------------------------------------------------------
eva                         + a calculator REPL, similar to bc                                + https://github.com/NerdyPepper/eva                    + rust

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------                NETWORK                    -----------------------------------------------------------
hostapd
dnsmasq
traceroute
ufw
tor
-------------------------------------------------------                  USB                      -----------------------------------------------------------
usbip
usbredir
-------------------------------------------------------                CONTAINER                  -----------------------------------------------------------
docker
lxd
wine
-------------------------------------------------------                 EDITORS                   -----------------------------------------------------------
neovim
kakoune
-------------------------------------------------------                 INTERNET                  -----------------------------------------------------------
buku
neomutt
surf
surfraw
-------------------------------------------------------                FILESYSTEM                 -----------------------------------------------------------
fuseiso
sshfs
btfs
unionfs
vdfuse
wdfs
bindfs
ipfs
-------------------------------------------------------                ENCRYPTION                 -----------------------------------------------------------
keybase
encfs
gocryptfs
qrencode
-------------------------------------------------------                  VIEWERS                  -----------------------------------------------------------
f3d
feh
sxiv
-------------------------------------------------------                   DISKS                   -----------------------------------------------------------
dfc
dtrx
clonezilla
smartctl
udisk2          - udiskctl
udevil
-------------------------------------------------------                 EMULATION                 -----------------------------------------------------------
qemu
kvm
